There are several major concerns that have to be addressed by the **metaverse of the future**: 
## 1. Identity and reputation
### Preventing impersonation and enforce code of conduct
The interactivity of the metaverse may allow a bad actor to carry out more convincing attacks through some advanced vector like social engineering or just by using someone's avatar.    
## 2. Data and security   
### Preventing data theft and misusage
The metaverse will likely increase the potential scope and amount of personal data that some bad actors can collect. And this vast amount of data is a gold mine that some technology companies and marketers can potentially tap into.  
## 3. Currency and payments 
### Creating and transferring value  
The metaverse will have its own form of a virtual market, integrating different real and digital currencies to enable quick and simple trading. It will be crucial to have a transaction verification mechanism regardless of the currency or market.    
## 4. Law and jurisdiction 
### Preventing cybercrimes and subdue offenders
Immersive experiences, especially those supported by haptic technology that transfers the experience of touch from the virtual world to the user, raise questions about how to respect personal boundaries and how to anticipate circumstances where such incidents may occur.  
## 5. Property and ownership
### Building viable economy  
The challenge will be in creating a unified system that have to be used to authenticate the possessors of virtual assets in the metaverse, awarding and proving ownership rights for art, music, films, and much more.  
## 6. Access and equality
### Utilizing the devices used
To use virtual reality, now we need the latest technologies and expensive headsets, as well as strong and reliable connectivity. This can widen the gap between its potential users.   
## 7. Community and support network 
### Creating safe space  
In the metaverse, insulting and abusive messages have been replaced by abusive actions. That's because virtual reality allows people to enter a digital environment where inappropriate speech and unwanted touching can feel almost real.  
## 8. Dependence and productivity
### Dealing with health and psychological issues  
The metaverse is an evolution of the internet we're familiar with, but with much more interactivity. Simply watching something on a flat screen with the level of interactivity we have today is highly addictive in itself, and there's no reason to doubt that this will extend into the metaverse.  

***

One of the best articles on the subject which is in accord with our train of thought is [here](https://lucidrealitylabs.com/blog/7-challenges-of-the-metaverse) but the most comprehensive document that we found to date is [The Metaverse in 2040](https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2022/06/30/the-metaverse-in-2040/) by Pew Research Center.