## The backend  
Decentralization, decentralization, decentralization. This mantra was repeated again and again through the past few months due to the whole Web 3.0 buzz but it can’t be more true and any really dependable metaverse platform has to jump on the bandwagon just to be able to catch up with the others and also because this is one of the most important single feature that any contemporary Web 3.0 platform must have. But decentralization and blockchain technology behind it can’t be really usable without having at least some degree of privacy. So it has to be serverless, trustless and dependable but also secure, redundant and private when needed.

This is where the actual blockchain technology will come in hand, combined with features like ability to store some data and broadcast it amongst the nodes in the network, transferable trustless shortnames, which also allow send and receive cryptocurrency value instead of these long and messy address strings; creation, storage and transfer of fungible and non-fungible tokens to have some actual economy; decentralized DNS, serving third level domains like `shortname.bit` for example, completed with some kind of peer-to-peer data storage nodes to give capacity, redundancy and privacy of the data stored across the platform. This will be the actual backbone of the platform or if we have to use more technical term - the backend of such kind of “metaverse of the future“.

## The frontend  
To be honest, all this before-mentioned features can’t have much practical value for the masses without any actually usable technology which can implement them into a self-sustained virtual environment where everyone who’s using it can easily communicate, develop and relax if one wants and which can be accessed from everywhere through various devices. And this is where the other parts of a the “metaverse of the future“ comes in play, making it complete.

The actual face of it or if we have to use the technical term — the frontend has to be some kind of a simulator where all developed functionalities can be visualized and tested and which can be easily configured and maintained. The best case scenario for “the metaverse of the future“ should be when this simulator not only can represent the reality to some extend but effortlessly add different objects in it like planets, satellites, buildings, vehicles, to have some Laws of Physics like gravity implemented but also to be as vast as one’s imagination.

And all this accompanied with a possibility of development of decentralized applications, which can communicate from within all currently active platform’s metaverses and between each other, by using a programing language of choice. Like a platform-wide social network, using the decentralized data storage to save any private information of the users. Or platform-wide DAO where everyone can publish a project, idea or something else and have it backed up if enough users find it worthy. The possibilities are obviously endless.

And the place where all these can simultaneously and effortlessly work together to achieve an exceptional user experience we now call **SpaceXpanse Multiverse**.