# SpaceXpanse Multiverse Whitepaper
## DISCLAIMER  
The [**SpaceXpanse Multiverse**](https://github.com/SpaceXpanse/) platform code is fully open source and maintained by it's contributors (the public, bitcoin core and other developers).  
The given information in this **SpaceXpanse Multiverse** whitepaper may not be exhaustive and does not imply any contractual relationship. This paper is for information purposes only and does not constitute and is not intended to be an offer of securities or any other financial or investment instrument in any jurisdiction. Any reader should be advised that the purchase of SpaceXpanse ROD coins may involve high risks.  
The given English language whitepaper is the primary and sole official source of information about the **SpaceXpanse Multiverse** project. The information contained herein may be translated into other languages and used in different channels. In the event of inconsistencies between any translations or communications and the given official English language whitepaper, the provisions of the given English language original document shall hold primary status and prevail. This version and future versions of the whitepaper may be modified at any time.  
**SpaceXpanse Multiverse**’s native cryptocurrency **ROD** has ****not**** been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 or with any regulatory authority of securities of any state or other jurisdiction in the territory of the United States.  
**SpaceXpanse Multiverse** does not and cannot provide guarantees, and disclaims any liability that any of the above-mentioned conditions shall be fulfilled. It is the responsibility of the potential participant or contributor to ensure that participation in any involvement or sales is not prohibited under the applicable laws of said participant’s or contributor’s country of residence or domicile.
